# Smart-Farming-System--IoT
India's population has reached beyond 1.3 billion and is still increasing day by day, in fact after 25-30 years there will be serious problems regarding food, hence it is necessary to develop and innovative the agricultural sector as soon as possible. Today, the farmers are suffering from the lack of rains and scarcity of water. 

The main objective of this system is to provide an automatic irrigation system which is powered by a smart solar system thereby saving time, money &amp; power of the farmer. The traditional farmland irrigation techniques require manual intervention. With the automated technology of irrigation, the human intervention can be minimized. An automated irrigation system for efficient water management and intruder detection system has also been included. Soil parameters like soil moisture, temperature are measured and the sensed values are displayed on the system. Whenever there is a change in temperature and humidity of the surroundings these sensors sense the change and gives an interrupt signal to the IOT device.

 The solar panels continuously track the position of the sun to ensure maximum energy production. The intruder detection system is done with the help of PIR sensor where the birds and some other animals are repelled from entering into the field(to an extent). The ESP8266 wifi module has been used to establish a communication link between the farmer and the field. The farmer can access the server about the field condition anytime, anywhere thereby reducing the man power and time. 
